To use both GNOME and LXQt on the same Alpine Linux system, you need to install both desktop environments and ensure that you can switch between them from the login screen. Below are the steps to install and use GNOME and LXQt simultaneously.

Step 1: Install Xorg and Basic Dependencies
Before installing the desktop environments, you need to install Xorg and the necessary packages to support a graphical environment.

Install Xorg and basic drivers:

bash
sudo apk update
sudo apk add xorg-server xf86-video-vesa xf86-input-evdev xterm
Step 2: Install GNOME
Install GNOME and additional components:

bash
sudo apk add gnome gnome-extra
Install GNOME Display Manager (GDM) to handle login and use GNOME:

bash
sudo apk add gdm
sudo rc-update add gdm default
sudo rc-service gdm start
Step 3: Install LXQt
Install LXQt:

bash
sudo apk add lxqt
LXQt is a lightweight and simple desktop environment that requires minimal resources. It’s an excellent option if you want to have a choice between GNOME and LXQt.

Step 4: Install LightDM (or Other Display Manager)
Both GNOME and LXQt can use different display managers. Since you’ve installed GDM for GNOME, you may opt for LightDM to handle login for LXQt. LightDM is a lightweight display manager compatible with various desktop environments.

Install LightDM:

bash
sudo apk add lightdm lightdm-gtk-greeter
Add LightDM to the startup process:

bash
sudo rc-update add lightdm default
Restart the LightDM service:

bash
sudo rc-service lightdm start
Once this step is complete, you can use LightDM to log in and choose between GNOME and LXQt.

Step 5: Switch Between GNOME and LXQt
When you restart or log in to the login screen (LightDM or GDM), you will have the option to select the desktop environment between GNOME and LXQt.

Choose GNOME or LXQt:

On the login screen, you can select the desktop environment you want to use. Typically, there will be an icon or menu (like a gear icon or "Session" menu).

Select GNOME to use GNOME, or choose LXQt to use LXQt.

Step 6: Restart and Test
After completing the steps above, restart the system or log back in. When the login screen appears, you can select your desired desktop environment (GNOME or LXQt).

Summary
Install Xorg and basic dependencies.

Install both GNOME and LXQt.

Install LightDM or GDM to manage login and switching between desktop environments.

Choose GNOME or LXQt from the login screen.
